# 2022

## How to make lldb work on vscode?

> I want to be able to use breakpoints.

There is permission issue related to the way how I installed vscode via
`flatpak`. Guess vim it is.

Although installation via `apt` should circumvent this problem. Next time.

## How to po rust object in LLDB?

> Breakpoints are working on macOS, but idk how to `po` a Rust object.

No idea, deep rabbit hole there. Another time.

## How to validate file path?

`PathBuf` has a method `exists()` for validating if a file path exists.

## How to abstract CLI module away from core functionality?

> This app should be agnostic to any types of interfaces,
> since interfaces can be either CLI or a GTK app or QT app or whatever.
> Its core functionality should be compartmentalized as a shared component.

Looks like Rust kinda treats folders as module itself as long as
I have a `mod.rs` file inside of the subdirectory.
And then the `main.rs` should be able to import it without problem.

## How to serialize csv into data model?

> I want to have a strongly typed data model to provide basic data
> validation when handling csv. Assuming the input csv can be potentially large
> and may not be sanitized to the correct format. Using a typed data model
> can be easier for me.

> The `serde` crate has pointed out that performing serialization can
> cause some performance decrease.

The `serde` crate can provide a outer attribute `#[Debug, Deserialize]`
to generate automatic implementation for `Deserialize` a Rust struct.

This feature needs to be explicitly enabled in `Cargo.toml`.

Very nice & clean, but it have abstracted too much implementation details
away from beginner learner.

How do I manually implementation its `Deserialize` trait without using
the `Deserialize` macro?

[doc here](https://serde.rs/custom-serialization.html)

## When should I trim the f32 to 4 decimal places?

> If I do it while serializing csv into rust object, it's an extra task
> that the serialization logic needs to handle inside of the loop. So
> performance can be impacted negatively, especially when the input csv
> file is large enough.

Assuming the output csv file is likely to be significantly smaller in size,
trimming f32 to 4 decimal places has less impact on performance.

## How to print Transaction object?

> I want to see if my serialization method works line by line.

`Transaction` needs to conform to the `fmt::Display` trait in order for
the print method to call because the print method doesn't know how to
coerce a custom object into string to flash onto the console.

## How do I host std doc locally?

> I want to read the doc of `fmt::Display` to see the required implementation(s).

[this thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/vtjzur/how_to_host_rust_std_docs_on_my_local_machine/)

`
rustup doc --std
`

It kinda worked and opened the doc, but got some problems with my browsers. Meh.

## How to serialize csv into data model of different property identifier with serde?

> I don't want to use the word "type" as a property on `Transaction` because
> it is a reserved keyword.

[doc here](https://serde.rs/variant-attrs.html)

## How to read app.toml config?

> I want to allow an `app.toml` config file to provide definitions on the
> number of CPU cores for multi-process tasks.

Because the default implement of Rust's threading topology is N-N, which
matches the exact number of CPU cores. This enhancement allows the app's
multi-threaded codes to be flexible and at the same time giving more control
to user's machine.

> Secondly, I want a `models.toml` config file to provide the structure
> of a data model, so that I can generate a data model instead of hardcoding
> one. If that's made possible, I can expose a more user friendly
> frontend by GTK to allow user to edit the data structure if needed,
> making this app more flexible and capable to deserializing, sanitizing,
> and then serialize it back into whatever format of a csv the end user want.

> Thirdly, I want to expose some settings for the type of algorithm that is
> used for traversing the csv file. This way, I can easily switch and then
> compare the performance of each algorithm I have tried to find a better
> result. Then depending on the type of algorithm, I can get some benchmarks
> too.

[doc here](https://rust-lang-nursery.github.io/rust-cookbook/encoding/complex.html)

`serde` can do it too, lol.

## Convert transaction type from string to a rust type

> Asumming transaction types are finite and small. Then I would prefer a OOP
> approach to make the type into a rust enum. Because it's less error prone.

Maybe something like this in the future:
```rust,ignore
enum TransactionType {
    Deposit,
    Withdrawal,
    Dispute,
    Chargeback,
    Resolve,
}
```

## How to adopt popular rules into rustfmt?

> rustfmt is doing weird things, I want to stop that by enforcing a
> popular community rule set.

Conduit has some from [here](https://github.com/pop-os/gtk-extras/blob/master/rustfmt.tom://gitlab.com/famedly/conduit/-/blob/next/rustfmt.toml)

## Using a SQL db architecture without a db

> I need to be able to look up which transaction id has been previously
> looped through that are not of types "dispute" or "chargeback" or
> "resolve" themselves. This feature is needed when validating a dispute
> type of transaction by looking up the `tx` field.

Due to the large volume of transaction objects, using a hashmap with `tx`
as hash key is going to blow up memory. While account is likely to be
a significantly smaller subset of the dataset. I can consider using a
hashmap to collect all the accounts with account id as primary key (just
as it were a table in a SQL db). And then use a separate hashmap table to
emulate the one-to-many relationship between account id to transaction ids.

By doing this, I can get a fairly fast look up by looping through the
related array of transaction ids for a specified account in the
relationship table without the need of a database. Besides, I'm not
too sure if a database is appropriate for consideration given the concerns
of security and decentralization.

## How do I do type alias in rust?

> I want to abstract `HashMap<u16, Vec<u16>>` into sth shorter & more
> meaningful.

[here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/items/type-aliases.html)

## How do I prevent stack overflow?

> I'm using `HashMap<u16, Vec<u32>>` to relate from one account to many
> transactions. It doesn't work as intended, because it store no information
> about amount.

> When I need to perform a lookup a transaction object by its `tx_id`,
> I have no object to fetch from.

If I create yet another HashMap to store all the transaction objects,
my laptop can potentially overflow its stack, because it's only got about
13GB swap space unlike a desktop.

Guess I can implement a brute force algorithm first for now.
I can debloat it later.

## How to store hashmaps efficiently?

Similar to a file lookup on linux, filename can be stored in a way
similar to a hashmap and keyed by part of its filename, by splitting
its filename into smaller chunks and ordering it like a binary tree.

## On `Transaction` object uniqueness

transactions are unique but "somewhat" mutable objects, because when
a transaction is created, it has to spawn from a transaction of type
"deposit" or "withdrawal". This type value is subject to mutate as time
goes by. So this is not the same concept as a transaction activity,
where a transaction is truly globally unique without mutation and with
a unique `tx` every time it appears on a user's account.

transaction of other types, such as "dispute", "chargeback", "resolve"
will only reference to previous and existing transactions of type
"deposit" or "withdrawal".

## Erroneous transactions handling

> Transaction of type "deposit" or "withdrawal" can potential have
> an amount that is <= `0_f32`.

This is an extreme edge case, meaning the service provider company have
no cover this erroneous transactions and somehow landed in thier database.

I'm going to ignore this edge case for now.

## Dispute and states of a transaction obj

> dispute can reference to either a "deposit" or "withdrawal" type
> of transaction.

If a dispute is resolved onto deposit, it should increase the account's
available funds, if it is resolved onto a withdrawal, it should decrease
the account's available funds. That means if I allow a transaction
to mutate on its `trans_type` interior property, it will lose context
of its previous state whether it was of type "deposit" or "withdrawal".

Hence transactions should not be mutable.

Alternatively, if I add an extra property onto the transaction object
to keep track of its `state`, it could work without maintaining a
separate hashmap for state reference purposes.

> This alternative approach is not very rusty, as it would make more
> sense to dedicate a separate object instead of a mutable state.

> This homework doesn't seem to take the transaction type into
> consideration when a transaction is in dispute.

> That means a few edge cases won't be handled within the context
> of this homework. For example, when transaction
> is in resolve state, it doesn't validate itself if the
> referencing transaction is marked as dispute or not.

## How to skip deserializing a particular field in serde?

> I am adding a state field to transaction object to keep track of the
> current state of a transaction. Since this state field is transient
> for the context of csv processing. I want serde to skip it from
> deserializing and serializing.

```rust,ignore
#[serde(skip)]
```

## How to unwrap multiple Option variables elegantly?

> I want to chain unwrapping multiple Optional variables to make my
> codes more readable.

Optional chaining doesn't seem to be supported yet. So I'll just
use a combination of `if let` and `?` to make do.

## Precise to 4 decimal places

> The requirement is to be precise to 4 decimal places.

That means I will need to retain up to 5 decimal places for computation,
and then round it up to 4 decimal places before flushing to terminal.

`serde` simply just serde whatever precision the data is holding. So no need
to care about precision up to 5 decimal places.

For it to round to 4 decimal precision:

```rust,ignore
(account.total * 10000_f32).round() / 10000_f32
```

## How to convert HashMap to Vec in rust?

> I want to convert the `account_map` into an array of `Account` for the
> writer to serialize, but iterating through the map only return the
> references of its key value pairs.

```rust,ignore
let accounts = account_map.values().cloned().collect::<Vec<Account>>();
```

## [feat] How to thread the serialization of csv proccess?

> I want to take advantage of the multi-core performance of the CPU by
> threading the deserialization codes.

## [bug] amount is incorrect when available / held mutated

Whenever a change on `held` or `available`, `total` must be recalculated.

## [test] add unit tests

> Need to check out how rust behave in terms of rounding f32 type.

Unit tests for `Account` object, integration tests for the algorithm in
`main.rs`.

## [feat] add Gtk GUI

## [chore] fix access controls on `Account` & `Transaction`

> Their fields are currently public and  free to modify by its caller. This
> can cause a bug in `Account` where both `held` & `available`
> can affect its own `total`.

Remove the `pub` access and then implement convenient getter & setter for these
2 structs.

## How to refactor functions to `lib.rs`?
